---
dg-publish: true
dg-path: Daily Notes/2025-03-20
permalink: /daily-notes/2025-03-20/
noteIcon: ""
created: 2025-03-20
---
# Customizing this site (with AI)
I want to change the order of my folders in the sidebar. The 
[obsidian-custom-sort](https://github.com/SebastianMC/obsidian-custom-sort) plugin might do the trick.

----------

I've been messing around a lot with Cursor AI and thought it'd be worthwhile to start using it to update my digital garden and learn better practices along the way. For example, I [[AI/Fixing Daily Notes sort order with AI|Changed the sort order of my daily notes]] from most recent on top to oldest on bottom. That entire page was also created by Cursor AI. I got the idea from Geoffrey Huntley's article on [asking Cursor to write rules](https://ghuntley.com/stdlib/). If I can ask cursor to update cursor rules with what it's learned, then asking it to put its learnings in a .md file should be no problem. 

One could argue that I could also learn much faster in this manner. But these lessons learned weren't from my own struggles and frustrations, they came from AI, so how hard are they going to stick to my brain? Perhaps the next best thing is to critically analyze the lessons learned from the AI model and ask more questions. For example, in [[Fixing Daily Notes sort order with AI|AI/Fixing Daily Notes sort order with AI| The Solution]] I could ask "how does removing the leading slash improve the check for daily notes?" because that's exactly the kind of question I'd expect anyone reading this to ask, among other things. 

I also noticed that Cursor was making the same mistakes when using powershell commands, so I told it to [[AI/Lessons learned from file operations|update its rules]] to follow powershell conventions. Likewise with [[AI/Lessons learned from Nunjucks template development|messing around with filters in Nunjucks]]. 