---
dg-publish: true
tags: 
permalink: /dasniel/
hide: true
aliases:
  - dasniel
dg-graph-title: 
dg-graph-exclude: "false"
dgShowInlineTitle: "false"
updated:
---
# Dasniel

Das is [ _just some fucking dude_](https://dasniel.com/who-das) who happens to be a self-professed philosopher with a background in IT and Cybersecurity. I think he's interesting because from my perspective we have a lot in common, and I don't interact with a lot of people who like philosophy, much less consider themselves philosophers. Also the philosophers I critically analyze are usually already dead, so it's neat to write about someone who is alive (However, I haven't yet ruled out that Dasniel may be dead inside).

On this page I develop *my* mental construct of Dasniel's Philosophical views, by 
1) seeking to understand his definitions
2) critically analyzing his arguments

Dasniel believes that due to [[202503292115|Naive Realism]], we fundamentally cannot be objective in our thinking. However, he acknowledges that we exist in an objective reality, albeit with subjective experiences.

### **Intersubjectivity**
the collective approximation of objectivity by encouraging subjectivity on the individual level while being open to collective correction.

by reaching consensus on our shared reality, together we can collectively make our reality better. Dasniel seeks this change and asserts that if he succeeds, his actions will impact us, because we live in a shared objective reality.


He breaks "Traditional Philosophy" into 4 components:
Ontology
Epistemology
Methodology
Axiology


## ### ONTOLOGY
Ontology is the nature of reality and its basic categorization.

### **RIGHTS OF CONSCIENCE**
>Rights of Conscience (freedom of religion) includes the rights to free choices and particularly for everyone’s freedom of thought, conscience, religion or belief. We all get to choose how we perceive reality, and there are a lot of options within philosophy.

* Everyone has the right to believe whatever they want.
* Dasniel asserts that there are multiple ways to perceive reality.

## **Das Philosophy**


### Topics
#### Liberal Fascism
#### Epistological Authoritarianism
